NATIONAL CONSUMER DISPUTES REDRESSAL COMMISSION
NEW DELHI

CONSUMER CASE NO. 257 OF 2019

1. GUNJAN AGGARWAL & ANR.
...........Complainant(s)
Versus	 
1. SEPSET PROPERTIES PVT. LTD. & ANR.
Through its managing Director, Having its Registered Office At: Room no. 205, Welcome Plaza S-551, School Block -II,
Shakarpur,
Delhi-110092
2. ICICI BANK LIMITED
Through its Managing Director, Having its Registered Office at; ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra Road,
Vadodara
Vadodara-390007
...........Opp.Party(s)

BEFORE:	 
 	HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V.K. JAIN,PRESIDING MEMBER

For the Complainant :		
Mr. Pawan Kumar Ray, Advocate
For the Opp.Party :	
Mr. Arvind Kumar Tiwary, Advocate

Dated : 28 Sep 2020
ORDER
JUSTICE V.K. JAIN, PRESIDING MEMBER (ORAL)

          The complainants booked a residential flat with the opposite party in a project namely 'Paras Dewas' on 29.12.2012 with a booking amount of Rs.7,50,000/-.  Pursuant to the application submitted by the complainants, an allotment letter dated 10.01.2013 was issued to them by the opposite party.  Thereafter, an agreement was executed between the parties on 23.4.2013.

2.      It would thus be seen that the possession was to be delivered within a period of 48 months, including the grace period of six months.

3.      The grievance of the complainants is that even the construction of the apartment is not complete till date, though they have already made payment of more than Rs.70 lakhs to the developer.  The complainants are therefore, before this Commission seeking refund of the amount paid by them to the developer along with interest, compensation etc.

4.      The complaint has been resisted by the OP which has taken two preliminary objections. The first preliminary objection taken by the OP is that the complaint is barred by limitation and the second preliminary objection as taken by the developer is that this Commission does not have pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain the complaint.

5.      As far as limitation is concerned, since the OP did not deliver or even offer the possession of the allotted flat to the complainants at any point of time, the complainants had a recurrent cause of action to file a consumer complaint. A reference in this regard can be made to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Meerut Development Authority Vs. Mukesh Kumar Gupta [IV(2012) CPJ 12 (SC)].

6.      As far as pecuniary jurisdiction is concerned, in terms of Section 21 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, this Commission had pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain a consumer complaint where the value of the goods or the services, as the case may be, and the compensation, if any, claimed in the complaint exceeded Rs.1.00 crores. As held by a Three-Members Bench of this Commission in Ambrish Kumar Shukla Vs. Ferrous Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. CC No. 97 of 2016, decided on 07.10.2016, the value of the services in such a case would mean the sale price agreed to be paid by the Flat Buyers to the Builder. The sale price of this flat was more than Rs.95.00 lacs. Therefore, this Commission has the requisite pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain and decide this complaint.

10.    As noted earlier, the possession was expected to be delivered by the complainants within a period of four years from the commencement date. If the date of execution of the agreement i.e. 23.4.2013 is taken as the commencement date, the possession ought to have been offered by 23.4.2017. There has already been a delay of almost 3 1/2 years. The complainants cannot be compelled to wait indefinitely for the possession of the allotted flat and are entitled to seek refund of the amount which they paid to the OP along with appropriate compensation in the form of interest etc.

11.    A reference in this regard can be made to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Pioneer Urban Land & Infrastructure Ltd. Vs. Govindan Raghavan & Connected Matter (2019) 5 SCC 725 and the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kolkata West International City Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Devasis Rudra II (2019) CPJ 29 (SC).

In Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta, this Court held that when a person hires the services of a builder, or a contractor, for the construction of a house or a flat, and the same is for a consideration, it is a "service" as defined by Section 2 (o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The inordinate delay in handing over possession of the flat clearly amounts to deficiency of service.

In Fortune Infrastructure & Anr. v. Trevor D'Lima & Ors., this Court held that a person cannot be made to wait indefinitely for possession of the flat allotted to him, and is entitled to seek refund of the amount paid by him, along with compensation.

12.   For the reasons stated hereinabove the complaint is disposed of with the following directions:

(i)      The OP shall refund the entire principal amount of Rs.70,33,103/- to the complainants.
(ii)      On the amount taken as a housing loan by the complainants from ICICI Bank, the OP shall pay as compensation such interest as is paid by the complainant to the ICICI Bank. On the rest of the amount, compensation in the form of simple interest shall be payable @ 9% per annum from the date of each payment till the date of refund.
(iii)     The OP shall pay a sum of Rs.25,000/- as cost of litigation to the complainants.
(iv)    The payment in terms of this order shall be made within six months from today.

......................J
V.K. JAIN
PRESIDING MEMBER
